---
layout: post
title: Computer
categories: General
---
## Definition
**Computer**: An electronic device which is used for various computation in Business, Scientific Studies, Academic Fields, etc.

## Usage
Some usages of computer are:
1. **Communication**: server and client computers connected to each other provide computer network which users could be used as a medium of communication

2. **Automated and repeated tasks**: repeated computable and logical operations are being handled by computers to improved productivity, and reduce cost

3. **Education and research**: recording, calculating, and storing information about everything is possible with computers

4. **Entertainment**: proving entertainment through video, sound, simulation, ...

5. **Creativities**: drawing, creating, compiling new ideas

6. **Business**: make a business more competible

7. **Prediction**: studying everyting and show trends and prediction

## Fun Facts
1. The first known computer programmer was a women, **Ada Lovelace**.
2. IBM introduced the world's first gigabyte-capacity disk drive, **the 3380**, in 1980.
3. **ENIAC** ( Electronic Numerical Integrator and Computer) was the first programmable, electronic, general purpose digital computer made in 1945. It cost about **$487,000**. The completed machine was announced to the public the evening of **February 14, 1946**.
4. **IBM 305 RAMAC** (Random Access Method of Accounting and Control) was the first computer hard disk drive unleased by IBM in 1956. It weighed more than a ton. It could hold roughly 5MB of data.
5. The **Intel 4004** is a 4-bit central processing unit (CPU) released by Intel Corporation in 1971. Sold for US$60, it was the first commercially produced microprocessor, and the first in a long line of Intel CPUs. 

## Revolutions
1. **Pre-20th century computer**: <br>
        Example: abacus
2. **First computer**: <br>
        Charles Babbage, an English mechanical engineer and polymath, originated the concept of a programmable computer. Considered the "father of the computer", he conceptualized and invented the first mechanical computer in the early 19th century.
3. **Analog computer**: <br>
        is a type of computer that uses the continuous variation aspect of physical phenomena such as electrical, mechanical, or hydraulic quantities to model the problem being solved. The first modern analog computer was a tide-predicting machine, invented by Sir William Thomson (later to become Lord Kelvin) in 1872. The differential analyser, a mechanical analog computer designed to solve differential equations by integration using wheel-and-disc mechanisms, was conceptualized in 1876 by James Thomson, the elder brother of the more famous Sir William Thomson
4. **Digital computer**: <br>
         In 1941, Zuse followed his earlier machine up with the Z3, the world's first working electromechanical programmable, fully automatic digital computer.
5. **Modern computer**: <br>
        The principle of the modern computer was proposed by Alan Turing in his seminal 1936 paper, On Computable Numbers. Turing proposed a simple device that he called "Universal Computing machine" and that is now known as a universal Turing machine.
6. **Mobile computer**: <br>
        The first mobile computers were heavy and ran from mains power. The 50 lb (23 kg) IBM 5100 was an early example